### Methods writeup - Resting state for Old Resting
Functional and antomical scans were collected on a 3.0 Tesla General Electric Signa® Excite™ scanner (Milwaukee, WI). Slice timing and movement correction was applied to the functional time-series data using SPM8. Frames with movement above a 0.5 framewise displacement (FD) threshold (Power et al, 2014) was smoothed between the pre and post frames (Satterthwaite et al., 2013) without any frame deletion (scrubbing). Subject's T1-overlay scan was then co-registered to the functional time-series data and the anatomical image was then co-registered to the co-registered T1-overlay image. The co-registered anatomical image was then segmented into gray, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and normalized into the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) space using VBM8 toolbox. The normalization matrix was then applied to the functional time-series image. The resulting time-series were then band-passed filtered between the frequencies of 0.01 and 0.10-Hz to limit the analysis to resting-state frequencies of interest. A parcellation map of the functional brain was adapted for network analysis (Power et al, 2013). 264 spherical regions of interest (ROIs) were constructed for ROI time-series extraction. Eight additional subcortical ROIs were also selected from the L/R amygdala and hippocampus region. Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients were calculated between average time courses in these 272 spherical ROIs and all other voxels of the brain resulting in a 3-dimensional correlation coefficient image (r-image). Both positive correlations and negative correlations were computed. These r-images were then transformed to z-scores using a Fisher r-to-z transformation.

- Power JD, Mitra A, Laumann TO, Snyder AZ, Schlaggar BL, Petersen SE. Methods to detect, characterize, and remove motion artifact in resting state fMRI. Neuroimage. 2013;84:320-41.
- Satterthwaite TD, Elliott MA, Gerraty RT, Ruparel K, Loughead J,Calkins ME, Eickhoff SB, Hakonarson H, Gur RC, Gur RE, Wolf DH. An Improved Framework for Confound Regression and Filtering for Control of Motion Artifact in the Preprocessing of Resting-State Functional Connectivity Data. NeuroImage 2013;64:240-256.

#### From Sripada 2013
Scans were collected on a 3.0 Tesla General Electric Signa® Excite™ scanner (Milwaukee, WI). Further details are provided in Supplemental Digital Content 1. Default mode ROIs (PCC and vmPFC) were 10 mm radius spheres centered at (0,−56,20) for PCC and (−2,48,−4) for vmPFC. These seed regions were adopted from previous studies of the DMN in PTSD (40, 45), schizophrenia (52), and healthy controls (17). Salience network ROIs (bilateral anterior insula) were partitioned from a whole insula mask using linear interpolation based on the location of the middle insular gyrus, following Aupperle and colleagues (53). We extracted spatially averaged time series from each ROI for each participant. Average BOLD time series from subject-specific structural MRI-derived white matter and cerebrospinal fluid masks were added to the model as nuisance covariates to control for non-specific global sources of noise associated with BOLD fMRI scanning. We did not perform global-signal regression, as it had been suggested that this may produce spurious anti-correlation with orthogonal networks that increase in proportion to the size of the those networks (54). Resting state functional connectivity measures low-frequency spontaneous BOLD oscillations (.01 – .10 Hz band) (17), thus, the time-course for each voxel was band-passed filtered in this range. Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients were calculated between average time courses in the seed regions of interest (ROIs) and all other voxels of the brain resulting in a 3-dimensional correlation coefficient image (r-image). Both positive correlations and anti-correlations were computed. These r-images were then transformed to z-scores using a Fisher r-to-z transformation (55).

#### From Rabinak 2011
Data from 32 participants (CEC = 17; PTSD = 15) met criteria for high quality and scan stability with minimum motion correction and were subsequently included in fMRI analyses (<3 mm displacement in any one direction; two PTSD patients were excluded for poor data quality due to excessive head movement). The first four volumes were discarded to allow for T1 equilibration effects. Functional data were processed and analyzed using Statistical Parametric Mapping software (SPM8; Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, London1) using similar methods previously published from our lab (Jelsone-Swain et al., 2010). Images were corrected for physiological signal fluctuations using a custom code written in MATLAB (MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA; Noll et al., 1991). Slice timing and movement correction was done to the time-series data using SPM8. Each participant’s T1-overlay was co-registered to the time-series data and the T1-SPGR was then co-registered to the co-registered T1-overlay image. The co-registered T1-SPGR was then segmented into gray matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and normalized to Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) space using VBM8 toolbox of SPM8 and the resulting normalization matrix was applied to the time-series data. These normalized time-series data were subsequently re-sampled to 2 mm3 voxels and smoothed with an 8-mm Gaussian kernel to minimize noise and effects due to residual differences in functional and gyral anatomy during inter-subject averaging. Then the resulting white matter and CSF segments were further defined using a custom algorithm previously described (Welsh et al., 2007). Each voxel’s time-series was detrended to correct for linear drift over time. Nine nuisance covariates (time-series predictors for global signal, white matter, CSF, and the six movement parameters, including the first derivative, obtained during realignment to account for motion-related effects in BOLD) were sequentially regressed from the time-series. The resulting time-series were then band-passed filtered between the frequencies of 0.01 and 0.10-Hz to limit the analysis to resting-state frequencies of interest.

To determine amygdala connectivity during resting-state, seed regions in the left and right amygdala were defined by an anatomically based amygdala mask in each hemisphere (from MAsk of region of interest analysis software, MARINA; Tzourio-Mazoyer et al., 2002; Walter et al., 2003). We then extracted the averaged time course from these seed regions in each participant’s data and calculated correlation coefficients between these average time courses and all other voxels of the brain resulting in an r-image for amygdala connectivity. The resulting correlation coefficients were then transformed into Z-scores using a Fisher r-to-Z transformation and the resulting Z images were analyzed at the second level in a random-effects statistical model. Two-tailed independent samples t tests were used to identify areas of the brain that exhibited activity that covaried with the amygdala differentially during resting-state between the two groups (PTSD > CEC; CEC > PTSD). Significant activations were identified with a whole-brain voxel-wise threshold of p < 0.005 with a minimum cluster extent of >387 contiguous voxels (3096 mm3), to correct for multiple comparisons at a corrected p < 0.05 calculated using Monte-Carlo simulations (AFNI 3dClustSim2). Previous studies interested in differences in brain connectivity between patients with PTSD and trauma-exposed controls without PTSD have used similar significance thresholding approaches to balance Type I and II error rates (Yin et al., 2011a,b). To clarify the signal direction, variance, and specificity of differences in strength of connectivity between the CEC and PTSD groups during resting-state, we extracted individual subject’s Z-score values from activated voxels that fell within an anatomically based mask for each a priori region from the between-group contrast (PTSD > CEC; Tzourio-Mazoyer et al., 2002; Walter et al., 2003). Of note, we did not conduct statistical tests on these measures, as they were defined from significant activations resulting from whole-brain maps of group differences in connectivity.
